DOCSP-40891 Choose Connection Target (#40)
mongodb/docs-java-rs: source/choose-connection-target.txt

.. _java-rs-connection-targets:

==========================
Choose a Connection Target
==========================

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: connection string, URI, server, settings, client

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to use a connection string and a ``MongoClient`` object
to connect to different types of MongoDB deployments.

Atlas
-----

To connect to a MongoDB deployment on Atlas, include the following elements
in your connection string:

- URL of your Atlas cluster
- MongoDB username
- MongoDB password

> Then, pass your connection string to the `create()` method constructing a ``MongoClient`` object.

Reviewer: S: always need two backticks
```suggestion
Then, pass your connection string to the ``create()`` method to construct a ``MongoClient`` object.
```

.. tip::

   Follow the :atlas:`Atlas driver connection guide </driver-connection>`
   to retrieve your connection string.

When you connect to Atlas, we recommend using the Stable API client option to avoid
breaking changes when Atlas upgrades to a new version of MongoDB Server.
To learn more about the Stable API feature, see :manual:`Stable API
</reference/stable-api>` in the MongoDB Server manual.

The following code shows how to use the {+driver-short+} to connect to an Atlas cluster. The
code also uses the ``serverApi`` option to specify a Stable API version.

.. literalinclude:: /includes/connect/atlas-connection.java
   :language: java

Local Deployments
-----------------

To connect to a local MongoDB deployment, use ``localhost`` as the hostname. By
default, the ``mongod`` process runs on port 27017, though you can customize this for
your deployment.

The following code shows how to use the {+driver-short+} to connect to a local MongoDB
deployment:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/connect/choose-connect-target.java
   :start-after: start-connect-local
   :end-before: end-connect-local
   :language: java
   :copyable:

> 

Reviewer: S: remove extra line

Replica Sets
------------

To connect to a replica set, specify the hostnames (or IP addresses) and 
port numbers of the replica-set members in your connection string.

If you aren't able to provide a full list of hosts in the replica set, you can 
specify one or more of the hosts in the replica set and instruct the {+driver-short+} to 
perform automatic discovery to find the others. To instruct the driver to perform
automatic discovery, perform one of the following actions:

- Specify the name of the replica set as the value of the ``replicaSet`` parameter.
- Specify ``false`` as the value of the ``directConnection`` parameter.
- Specify more than one host in the replica set.

In the following example, the driver uses a sample connection URI to connect to the 
MongoDB replica set ``sampleRS``, which is running on port ``27017`` of three different
hosts, including ``host1``:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/connect/choose-connect-target.java
   :start-after: start-connect-replica
   :end-before: end-connect-replica
   :language: java
   :copyable:

> .. note:: Empty String Representation

Reviewer: S; I'm not sure this is the best description for what this note displays
```suggestion
.. note:: create() is Non-Blocking
```

   The ``create()`` method constructing a ``MongoClient`` is *non-blocking*.
   When you connect to a replica set, the method returns immediately while the
   client uses background threads to connect to the replica set.
   
   If you create a ``MongoClient`` and immediately print the string representation
   of its ``nodes`` attribute, the list might be empty while the client connects to
   the replica-set members.

Initialization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To initialize a replica set, you must connect directly to a single member. To do so,
set the ``directConnection`` connection

> option to ``True``. You can do this in the following ways:

Reviewer: S: add a new line before list

.. _java-rs-connection-targets:

==========================
Choose a Connection Target
==========================

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: connection string, URI, server, settings, client

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to use a connection string and a ``MongoClient`` object
to connect to different types of MongoDB deployments.

Atlas
-----

To connect to a MongoDB deployment on Atlas, include the following elements
in your connection string:

- URL of your Atlas cluster
- MongoDB username
- MongoDB password

> Then, pass your connection string to the method constructing a ``MongoClient`` object.

Reviewer: S: Can you name the specific method?

breaking changes when Atlas upgrades to a new version of MongoDB Server.
To learn more about the Stable API feature, see :manual:`Stable API
</reference/stable-api>` in the MongoDB Server manual.

The following code shows how to use the {+driver-short+} to connect to an Atlas cluster. The
code also uses the ``serverApi`` option to specify a Stable API version.

.. literalinclude:: /includes/connect/atlas-connection.java
   :language: java

Local Deployments
-----------------

To connect to a local MongoDB deployment, use ``localhost`` as the hostname. By
default, the ``mongod`` process runs on port 27017, though you can customize this for
your deployment.

The following code shows how to use the {+driver-short+} to connect to a local MongoDB
deployment:

.. code-block:: java

    import com.mongodb.reactivestreams.client.MongoClients;
    import com.mongodb.reactivestreams.client.MongoClient;

    public class MongoConnection {
        public static void main(String[] args) {
            String uri = "mongodb://localhost:27017/";
            try (MongoClient client = MongoClients.create(uri)) {
                // use `client` here
            }
        }

>     }

Reviewer: S: move into a file and include

If you aren't able to provide a full list of hosts in the replica set, you can 
specify one or more of the hosts in the replica set and instruct the {+driver-short+} to 
perform automatic discovery to find the others. To instruct the driver to perform
automatic discovery, perform one of the following actions:

- Specify the name of the replica set as the value of the ``replicaSet`` parameter.
- Specify ``false`` as the value of the ``directConnection`` parameter.
- Specify more than one host in the replica set.

In the following example, the driver uses a sample connection URI to connect to the 
MongoDB replica set ``sampleRS``, which is running on port ``27017`` of three different
hosts, including ``host1``:

.. code-block:: java

    import com.mongodb.reactivestreams.client.MongoClients;
    import com.mongodb.reactivestreams.client.MongoClient;

    public class MongoConnection {
        public static void main(String[] args) {
            String uri = "mongodb://localhost:27017/?replicaSet=sampleRS";
            try (MongoClient client = MongoClients.create(uri)) {
                // use `client` here
            }
        }

>     }

Reviewer: S: move into file

> .. note::

Reviewer: S: add a title to this note

   The method constructing a ``MongoClient`` is *non-blocking*.
   When you connect to a replica set, the method returns immediately while the
   client uses background threads to connect to the replica set.
   
   If you create a ``MongoClient`` and immediately print the string representation
   of its ``nodes`` attribute, the list might be empty while the client connects to
   the replica-set members.

Initialization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To initialize a replica set, you must connect directly to a single member. To do so,
> set the ``directConnection`` connection
> option to ``True``. You can do this in two ways: by passing an argument to the
> ``MongoClient`` constructor or through a parameter in your connection string.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To initialize a replica set, you must connect directly to a single member. To do so,
set the ``directConnection`` connection option to ``True``.
You can do this in the following ways:

- Passing an argument to the ``MongoClient`` constructor.
- Setting the parameter in your connection string.

```

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: MongoClient
      :tabid: mongoclient

      .. code-block:: java
         :emphasize-lines: 7

         import com.mongodb.reactivestreams.client.MongoClients;
         import com.mongodb.reactivestreams.client.MongoClient;

         public class MongoConnection {
            public static void main(String[] args) {
                try (MongoClient client = MongoClients.create("mongodb://<hostname>:<port>",
                directConnection=True)){
                    // use `client` here
                }
            }

>          }

Reviewer: S: move these code examples into files

   .. tab:: Connection String
      :tabid: connectionstring

      .. code-block:: java
         :emphasize-lines: 6

         import com.mongodb.reactivestreams.client.MongoClients;
         import com.mongodb.reactivestreams.client.MongoClient;

         public class MongoConnection {
            public static void main(String[] args) {
                String uri = "mongodb://<hostname>:<port>/?directConnection=true";
                try (MongoClient client = MongoClients.create(uri)){
                    // use `client` here
                }
            }
         }

API Documentation
-----------------

To learn more about creating a ``MongoClient`` instance in the {+driver-short+},
see the following API documentation:

> - `MongoClient <https://mongodb.github.io/mongo-java-driver/5.1/apidocs/mongodb-driver-reactivestreams/com/mongodb/reactivestreams/client/MongoClients.html>`__ 

Reviewer: S: instead of pasting the whole string, use a source constant that you can reuse. Lmk if you have questions about how to do this
